Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

Why do we need data structure?
Data structure is important because the entire collection framework is made up of data structures, so you need
to know the inner workings to get best performance.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
Searching, Inserting, Deleting, Sorting, Merging, and Traversing are the various operations that can be done on data structures.

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
Compiler Design, Operating System, Database Management System, Statistical analysis package, Numerical Analysis, Graphics,
Artificial Intelligence, and Simulation are areas where data structure is applied extensively.

What is an Array?
An array is a container object that holds a fixed number of values of a single type.

What is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
The main difference between Array and ArrayList is that Array is a fixed length data structure while ArrayList is a resizable length.

What is LinkedList?
A linked list is a linear data structure where each element is a separate object.

How is an Array different from Linked List?
In array, each element is independent, no connection with previous element or with its location.
In Linked list, location or address of elements is stored in the link part of previous element/node.
In array, no pointers are used like linked list so no need of extra space in memory for pointer

What is queue?
A queue is a container of objects that are inserted and removed according to the first-in first-out (FIFO) principle.
New additions to a line are made to the back of the queue, while removal happens in the front. Insert means to insert an item
into the back of the queue, remove means removing the front item.

What is stack?
A stack is a container of objects that are inserted and removed according to the last-in first-out (LIFO) principle.
In stacks, only two operations are allowed: push the item into the stack, and pop the item out of the stack. Push adds an item to the top
of the stack, and pop removes the item from the top.

what is FIFO and LIFO?
FIFO - orders elements on the basis of the first in first out principle. The first element is removed first, and the last element gets removed last.
LIFO - orders elements on the basis of the last in, first out principle. The last element is removed first, and the first element gets removed last.

What is the order of complexity?
The order of complexity is shown When you optimize code for speed. If an input requires size of N in the code, then
it will have O(N) complexity.

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
Merge sort is the best.

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
Bubble sort is the worst.

what is tree in data structure?
A tree is a widely used abstract data structure that simulates a hierarchical tree structure, with a root value and subtrees
of children with a parent node, represented as a set of linked nodes.

what is graph in data structure?
A graph is a pictorial representation of a set of objects where some pairs of objects are connected by links.

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
- The HashMap class is roughly equivalent to Hashtable, except that it is non synchronized and permits nulls. HashMap allows
  null values as key and value whereas Hashtable doesn't allow nulls).
- HashMap does not guarantee that the order of the map will remain constant over time.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
- RDBMS: Array
- Network data model: Graph
- Hierarchical data model: Trees

How HashMap works in java?
HashMap in Java stores both key and value object, in bucket, as an object of Entry class which implements this nested
interface Map.Entry. hashCode(). HashMap provides put(key, value) for storing and get(key) method for retrieving
Values from HashMap. The equals() method is used to compare objects for equality.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
This exception is thrown when you try to access an array item that doesn't exist:

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
You can copy an array into another array by creating the new array, copying the first array, and then storing the values into the new array.

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
In array, each element is independent, no connection with previous element or with its location.
In Linked list, location or address of elements is stored in the link part of previous element/node.
In array, no pointers are used like linked list so no need of extra space in memory for pointer

What is DFS and BFS?
The breadth first search (BFS) and the depth first search (DFS) are the two algorithms used for traversing and searching a node in a graph.
They can also be used to find out whether a node is reachable from a given node or not

What is Recursion?
Recursion is a tool a programmer can use to invoke a function call on itself.
Fibonacci sequence is the textbook example of how recursion is used.

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
Linear data structures is where the data elements are organised in some sequence is called linear data structure.
Non-linear data structure is where the data elements are organised in some arbitrary function without any sequence

What is Big-(O)-notation?
Big O notation is used in Computer Science to describe the performance or complexity of an algorithm.
Big O specifically describes the worst-case scenario, and can be used to describe the execution time required or the
space used (e.g. in memory or on disk) by an algorithm.

Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
Efficient sorts, practical general sorting algorithms are almost always based on an algorithm with average time complexity
(and generally worst-case complexity) O(n log n), of which the most common are heap sort, merge sort, and quick sort.
QuickSort- O(nlog(n)), MergeSort- O(nlog(n)), HeapSort- O(nlog(n)), InsertionSort- O(n^2), and SelectionSort-O(n^2)

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.
